= Scanty, a really small blog, now on MongoDB

== Overview

Scanty is blogging software Created by Adam Wiggins:
http://adam.blog.heroku.com

This fork uses MongoDB, a document-oriented database, found at:
http://mongodb.org

Domain modeling is done through John Nunemaker's excellent mongomapper

See it running at:
http://blog.miesie.com

== Features

* Posts (shock!)
* Tags
* Markdown (via Maruku)
* Ruby code syntax highlighting (via Syntax)
* Atom feed
* Comments via Disqus
* Web framework = Sinatra
* Domain Modeling = MongoMapper

== Dependencies

  $ gem install sinatra mongo

MongoMapper, Maruku, and Syntax are all vendored.

You can do a gem install mongo_ext which installs the C extension for extra performance.

== Setup

Edit main.rb and change the Blog config struct at the top to your liking.  For
security purposes, change the admin password and the admin cookie key and
value.  These last two can be set to any random value you like, just choose
something other than the default.

Then run the server:

  $ ruby main.rb

And visit: http://localhost:4567

Log in with the password you selected, then click New Post.  The rest should be
self-explanatory.


== Database

You will need to be able to connect to MongoDB. Either install it locally (by following the instructions at http://www.mongodb.org/display/DOCS/Quickstart or use for instance MongoHQ (http://mongohq.com) like I did.

== Comments

There are no comments by default.  If you wish to activate comments, create an
account and a website on Disqus (disqus.com) and enter the website shortname as
the :disqus_shortname value in the Blog config struct.

== Import data

Christopher Swenson has a Wordpress importer: http://github.com/swenson/scanty_wordpress_import

Other kinds of data can be imported easily, take a look at the rake task :import for an example of loading from a YAML file with field names that match the database schema.

== Customize

There are no themes or settings beyond the basic ones in the Blog struct.  Just
edit the CSS or the code as you see fit.

== Meta

Written by Adam Wiggins

Patches contributed by: Christopher Swenson, S. Brent Faulkner, and Stephen Eley

Released under the MIT License: http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php

http://github.com/adamwiggins/scanty

http://adam.blog.heroku.com

